
  INSTALL file for JCC build
  --------------------------

  Contents
  --------

   - Building JCC
   - Requirements
   - Shared Mode (--shared)
   - Notes for Mac OS X
   - Notes for Linux
   - Notes for Solaris
   - Notes for Windows
   - Notes for Python 2.3


  Building JCC
  ------------

  JCC is a Python extension written in Python and C++. It requires a Java
  Runtime Environment to operate as it uses Java's reflection APIs to do 
  its work. It is built and installed via distutils or setuptools.

  1. Edit setup.py and review that values in the INCLUDE, CFLAGS,
     DEBUG_CFLAGS, LFLAGS and JAVAC are correct for your system. These
     values are also going to be compiled into JCC's config.py file and are
     going to be used by JCC when invoking distutils or setuptools to compile
     extensions its generating code for.

  2. At the command line, enter:

       python setup.py build
       sudo python setup.py install


  Requirements
  ------------

  JCC requires a Java Development Kit to be present. It uses the Java Native
  Invocation Interface and expects <jni.h> and the Java libraries to be
  present at build and runtime.


  Shared Mode (--shared)
  ----------------------

  JCC includes a small runtime that keeps track of the Java VM and of Java
  objects escaping it. Because there can be only one Java VM embedded in a
  given process at a time, the JCC runtime must be compiled as a shared
  library when more than one JCC-built Python extension is going to be
  imported into a given Python process.

  Shared mode depends on setuptools' capability of building plain shared
  libraries (as opposed to shared libraries for Python extensions). 
  This shared library capability is a feature currently under development.

  Currently, shared mode is supported with setuptools 0.6c7 and above out of
  the box on Mac OS X and Windows. On Linux, a patch to setuptools needs to
  be applied first. This patch is included in the JCC source distribution in
  the jcc/patches directory, patch.43. This patch was submitted to the
  setuptools project via issue 43: http://bugs.python.org/setuptools/issue43

  The 'shared mode disabled' error reported during the build of JCC's on
  Linux contains the exact instructions on how to patch setuptools with
  patch.43 on your system.

  Shared mode is also required when embedding Python in a Java VM as JCC's
  runtime shared library is used by the JVM to load JCC and bootstrap the
  Python VM via JNI.

  When shared mode is not enabled, not supported or distutils is used
  instead of setuptools, static mode is used instead. The JCC runtime code
  is statically linked with eacg JCC-built Python extension and only one
  such extension can be used in a given Python process.

  As setuptools grows its shared library building capability it is expected
  that more operating systems should be supported with shared mode in the
  future.

  Shared mode can be forced off by building JCC with the NO_SHARED
  environment variable set.


  Notes for Mac OS X
  ------------------

  On Mac OS X, Java is installed by Apple's setup as a framework.
  The values for INCLUDE and LFLAGS for 'darwin' should be correct and
  ready to use.


  Notes for Linux
  ---------------

  JCC has been built and tested on a variety of Linux distributions, 32- and
  64-bit. Getting the java configuration correct is important and is done
  differently for every distribution.

  For example:

    - on Ubuntu, to install Java 5, these commands may be used:  
        sudo apt-get install sun-java5-jdk
        sudo update-java-alternatives -s java-1.5.0-sun
      The samples flags for Linux in JCC's setup.py should be close to
      correct.

    - on Gentoo, the java-config utility should be used to locate, and
      possibly change, the default java installation.
      The sample flags for Linux in JCC's setup.py should be changed to
      reflect the root of the Java installation which may be obtained via:
        java-config -O

  See above section about 'Shared Mode' for Linux support


  Notes for Solaris
  -----------------

  At this time, JCC has been built and tested only on Solaris 11 with Sun
  Studio C++ 12, Java 1.6 and Python 2.4.
  
  Because JCC is written in C++, Python's distutils must be nudged a bit to
  invoke the correct compiler. Sun Studio's C compiler is called 'cc' while
  its C++ compiler is called 'CC'. To build JCC, use the following shell
  command to ensure that the C++ compiler is used:

    CC=CC python setup.py build

  Shared mode is not currently implemented for Solaris, setuptools needs to
  be taught how to build plain shared libraries on Solaris first.


  Notes for Windows
  -----------------

  At this time, JCC has been built and tested on Win2k and WinXP with a
  variety of Python and Java versions.

  - Adding the Python directory to PATH is recommended.
  - Adding the Java directories containing the necessary DLLs and to PATH is 
    a must.
  - Adding the directory containing javac.exe to PATH is required for shared
    mode (enabled by default if setuptools >= 0.6c7 is found to be installed).


  Notes for Python 2.3
  --------------------

  To use JCC with Python 2.3, setuptools is required:

  - download setuptools from http://python.org/pypi
  - edit the downloaded setuptools egg file to use python2.3 instead of
    python2.4
  - sudo sh setuptools-0.6c7-py2.4.egg
